[Inaudible].
3, 2, 1. Stir it up.
Nick we're live.
Hello everyone. Hello, everyone.
Put the, uh, ear cups on and cheers.
Um, and thank you, Joe. Thanks for being here, man. Yeah.
Thank you for bringing me out here, man. I know we meant to do this before,
but I hope now with all this good energy between us,
we can do this properly for you. Yeah.
Yeah, for sure. Listen, man,
to say that you've had a crazy experience in this life is one of
the most understated things a person could ever say. I mean,
where do we begin? Right? Let's tell everybody your story.
So you were wrongfully committed of murder.
You spent 22 years on death row before you were
exonerated by DNA evidence.
Hello everyone.
My name is Nick Harris and I was ex Joe said convicted
and sentenced to die for rape and murder.
I didn't commit at the age of 21 in 1981,
a woman named Mrs. Craig was murdered in Delaware.
I have never met the woman.
I was in prison on unrelated charges and I stupidly made up a story to try and
get out of those charges.
The police soon realized that I was a liar and they fabricated the
charges around me then. So it's ironic. Then in a few days,
you're going to upper Darby, Pennsylvania, and that's where the murder happened.
Really? Basically. And Linda May,
Craig was leaving her job at 4:05 PM on December 15th, 1981.
She's going home. She gets abducted. I don't know any of this,
but I tried in desperations to get out of a lie that this officer put on me for.
I, I got pulled over in a stolen car. The cop beats me up.
He puts charges on me. I'm facing life imprisonment.
And I'm a junkie because all of my life,
I was destroyed by what happened to me at the age of seven.
I had my head beaten in, by a man with a rock in his hand,
after he sexually assaulted me.
And I did all the stupid things that people can do in the aftermath.
I kept it a secret and I let it foster all the anger in me.
I became very aggressive as a child and I ended up in trouble all the time.
And when I was in prison on these unrelated charges to the murder,
I stupidly fell into that mindset of desperation of trying to get out of it.
So the police put a prisoner in the cell next to me. He said,
I confessed to him. I was given a three-day trial.
I was sentenced to death and put on death row. And then stupidly,
I escaped from prison in 1985 and ended up on the FBI's most wanted list.
Have to get out.
I was being transported to court and the sheriffs were being cool with me.
At first, they were talking about what was going on in Philly.
They were two nice guys, like 60 S 68 67.
And we drove five hours from one of the hardest prisons in America called
Huntington.
And I left there after spending two years of my first two years in silence.
So if you opened your mouth, they would come in and beat your head.
And so I was so glad to get in the car cause my mom was waiting in my lawyer's
office because they were going to give me a review of my trial because they
withheld so much evidence.
So I was eager to go to court and it was the coldest day of 1985,
February 15th.
We stop at a gas station in Exton, Pennsylvania.
And as I got out of the car,
the officer driving pull past the cubicles.
Now we all got out of the car and ran over to the cubicle together.
And I went in to start a pin and the officer's holding the door for me and my
eyeglasses start fogging up. You know what I mean?
Cause you go from the freezing cold to the warm, to the cold, your eyeglasses.
So all I know is I turned around and I come out and he has the door like that.
And I put my head down,
go under his arm and I turned left and go back to the car and to do smoke a
cigarette. Doesn't know that his partner,
when a cubicle to and as I'm running back to the duty,
pulls his pistol out and point blank shoots at me, Joe, like, wow.
And as it went past my face, I was like, oh, I hit the ground.
I ran and he's following me with the gun. I could feel it like, um,
like I was waiting from the blast. Me, you know, did he shoot at you?
Cause he thought.
I overpowered his partner. Oh he does. No. His testimony.
At trial was I turned around Knicks running at me. My partners down are gone.
I pulled my gun and he runs and I,
I wasn't going to let a death row prisoner run.
So I've tried to stop him my shot. So I run around the corner. I hit the ground.
I ripped all the skin off my hands.
I've run around the corner and I fly towards this restaurant.
And there's all these people innocently eating dinner and I'm running right
towards the plate glass window. Cause he ain't going to blast me. You know?
And I ran, like I knew he couldn't shoot.
And then I shot around the corner and I ran down to a gas station.
I tried to steal car that didn't work. Then I ran like 400 yards,
400 yards, 400 yards. And I hid behind the car. I just escaped from.
And I was laying in the weeds behind a gas station, about 50 yards from a mud.
They were screaming who was the bigger idiot for letting this happen?
And I was thinking, oh my God, like, what am I doing? What do I do, Joe?
Where like, how do I just jump up and say, wait a minute. It was a mistake.
You know, he already tried to shoot me in the face, right?
So I go hide behind the police station next four hours. Oh my God.
I'm Jane Page chased by a helicopter.
And he chases me and he pins me and he chases me.
And I was so fit that I ran for four hours through the woods without care,
what the branches did to my face or nothing. Man. I blew out both, uh, quads.
I did my, my hamstrings. I ripped my feet open.
I've ran so hard in terror that I didn't care, man. And I got away and I,
I made it all the way to Florida and I was going to lead the country and all
this. And I said, I got to go back. How did you get to Florida?
I stole a dude's wallet, New York.
And I got on an airplane and I went down to Florida and I tried to Rob a drug
dealer and I tried to do just, I was sitting there. I was so angry.
I was going to kill myself. I was on, uh, I'll never forget this day.
I didn't want my folks to see me in prison handcuffs no more. You know?
So I was going by a raft and was going to go out in the ocean and I was going to
have one last party. But all the foods that I loved,
then I was going to stab the raft, wait for the sharks, had to cut my wrists.
You know, now let's go to cap myself and go. Then I said, no, I'm going back.
So I turned myself back in, they put me on death row in Florida.
And I went back in my face that, you know, say beat me for four minutes, man.
They broke my face, broke my back, crushed me, man,
tortured me. And I thought, I'm going to get you back. You know,
for all the days you made me go in a cage and beat some other prisoner.
While you stood there with a club laughing at me, I'm going to get you back.
I'm gonna make sure I start being a loving person again.
So I'm sitting there in 19 85,
19 86 with 105 years plus a death penalty. And I decided,
this. I'm going to be a nice guy. So I started to learn,
okay. I suffer from a phasia.
I had my head beaten and when a rock sewed it, what is aphasia?
Aphasia can be identified simply in people who have stuttering disorder,
their brain and their of vernacular abilities are
distorted by a disruption in her brain.
Either their brain is functioning too fast or their mouth is functioning too
fast.
There's a combination of misfiring and aphasia can be
through trauma or through genetics and aphasia effected my life so much as a
young person.
I never had the respect to listen to people because I couldn't function.
I couldn't articulate. I couldn't speak. When I was at trial.
People spoke words that I didn't understand and it frustrated me.
And when I tried to speak and I stuttered people would be like, dad, come on,
retard. What he got to say? So after that beaten,
would they beat me for four minutes and he broke face.
I began practicing speaking to myself every day.
I learned new words and I taught myself how to correctly articulate
that word into a sentence beautifully from my own self,
my cell every day. And then I became very,
very good at writing. I began helping other prisoners.
I became the most dangerous prisoner that they held because I cared about other
men. I wrote to their mothers. I wrote letters to their lawyers.
I gave opportunities for people to write books about me so I could help another
innocent man.
I did all those things because that's how I got back at him for like they did to
me. So in 1988,
I'm sitting in my cell and I read about DNA and I knew right
then I could prove my innocence.
So I was the first man in America and February of 1988 to ask for DNA
testing, to prove my innocence. And he threw away all the autopsy material.
And when I discovered new evidence that destroyed that and his woman who came to
meet me and start visiting me, fell in love with me. And she believed in me.
So she stood by me and told me that she would be with me
either to the gallows walk or to the moment I approve medicines.
And for nine years he stood by me, you know? And finally
we found some evidence that was testable in 1995. What, what was the evidence?
It was sperm from the rape and it was being sent out here to California,
to Dr. Deb, Edward Blake. And it broke open and transport spilled.
So Jackie left me, had nothing left.
And then they put me in a special unit and it started torturing me.
I keep this part quiet. I never told the story.
It would ruin what happened in fear with 13. It's now out on Netflix,
but they finally closed down the old prison.
I was in for 12 years where the average rate of survival was only five.
And I was wanting heart as Jews there. And I made it,
they closed the prison down and open up green county supermax.
And the courts ordered that every prisoner in Pennsylvania be loud,
other sell for eight hours. The administration looked at each other as that.
Not the crazy cannibals, not the serial killers,
not the dudes that have been assault and rape in each other.
So they picked 48 of us out and they put us in Pittsburgh in a special
penitentiary setting in which we were in a sealed unit.
And they put all these guards in there.
They weren't allowed to touch other prisoners because they were so violent and
told them there were giving you the craziest of the crazy, you know,
Buffalo bill from silence of the lamb was a real man, right?
His name was Gary hygienic.
He abducted black women in Philadelphia and put them in a pit under his house
and fed one of them to the other survivors because he was building a master
race. He was my neighbor man, like,
so they started torturing us and doing all this psychological,
crazy to his word, a refeed and this to each other like wolves.
So I kept it all quiet until this year. When, once again,
misfortune fell on my life and I released, Monster's a madman,
a new book that I was going to give you today. And I thought,
and I got to tell that story, you know,
but it's been so hard to come back from these moments, Joe. It's just like,
I look at what they did to me and how I went to that moment,
where to DNA is gone. Jackie leaves me.
And so I find I'm dying from hepatitis C that they did when, uh,
they infected me of it when they broke my teeth, when they beat me.
So I asked to be executed. I said,
I studied all the world's religions. I read over 9,000 books.
I did everything in piety. My mother asked me to do,
I don't want a guide like Dale Carter did with the cards,
come into a cell and taught them, you know,
teasing them and listen to a man scream in agony because the bile in his belly
is killing them. So I wrote to the courts and asked to be executed. I said,
it, man. I want to die as a man.
I love who can respect himself.
The court intervened and ordered DNA testing that was going to be done on
evidence is spelled in July of 2003.
The DNA test come back and he proved me innocent.
So the, the D evidence spilled and they just captured it. Once it spilled.
It was in a box would all this evidence and Dr. Edward Blake,
who did the OJ Simpson trial DNA said that there would be challenges to it.
If he did the DNA in 19 99, 19 98, in 2003,
they had advanced mitochondrial DNA separation. So welded,
he felt confident in his results. So the federal court got involved and said,
look, I don't want to have this man executed. I want the DNA done.
So they did that. And it was amazing that on the day that I called the lawyers,
they revealed a truth to me. I called his lawyer and I'm like, what's up?
He goes, Nick, we got DNA from three separate sources that prove you innocent.
I said, that's amazing, Mike. I, uh, I'm, I'm really grateful.
He goes, you know,
we used to tell people you're crazy that we never believed in you.
I'm really sorry for that, man. Really?
You want to take away my joy now, man.
So I was really downcast at the day. I called my mother, my brother,
Mike.
He was having a seizure at her feet cause he was an alcoholic after he fell off
a roof and he died shortly after. So.
It just went.
Crazy from there. They take me off death row and they put me in a psychological
cell and they tell me they can't trust me that no human being
that is had done to them.
What we've done to you can not be angry that we opened this door up and we'd
let you out. You're going to get us.
So we're going to leave you until the day they let you out.
We're going to leave you in this cell because we don't trust you not to kill us
for what we did to you. What did they do to you?
That he used to have a thing called gladiator day
said a Lieutenant will be off on a Sunday.
And the guards who started to come from the Philadelphia area
were black and they didn't like the guards up in the hillbillies beaten on black
prisoners.
So a weird thing happened where this Lieutenant came up with the idea we'll
look,
let's let the prisoners get this frustration out of you guys by you pick out the
biggest guy and you pick out this guy.
So one day I'm sitting there minding my own business and they open up my cell
and there's four of them were clubs, Europe.
So I gotta go in the cage and I got to go and hurt somebody while they stand
outside. And if you don't fight,
they're going to come in and they're going to beat you worse than you can beat a
man or get beaten by one man.
So they did all this for their entertainment. Will they ever punished for this?
Not until after the riot,
when one of them testified against the others for the murder and stuff,
I watched the 11 people commit suicide. I've been stabbed,
strangled, beaten, senseless.
The guards used to talk because I was a QS of a psychological
murder of going out and stalk and his poor woman because she looked like my
girlfriend. They said I was never treated like a prisoner.
I was treated with deference. The worst word I know in English dictionary,
the way I was treated was so harsh that it was cruel beyond cruel.
And yet all I wanted to do was have enough
within me to learn the beautifully speaks.
It didn't want a date at the executed me.
I could tell them how much I cared about myself.
I was more important to me than living because
somehow when you suffer,
like I have suffered your head cracks open,
and you have Hybris sensitivity to life
so that when you touch the human beings, you never forget the 14 years,
no one was allowed to touch you. You know what? this.
I ain't crying in war.
It's all right, man. There's nothing wrong with crying. I just.
Thought about it.
I do,
because I feel if we're to you shouldn't know because I look in your arms and,
and your eyes and I see the hurt that I'm causing you. No, no.
No, no, no. Don't worry about that, man.
All I'm doing is trying to imagine what your life has been like.
Don't you worry about me at all.
I'm harder than life and I'm kinder than love secretly. I'm a Saint.
I never hurt anyone.
I tried my best to be played every day and I've had misfortune
and I've returned
and a very sorry that I sit in his chair today after
it came about you see, I believe in good.
I believe good is going to win Joe.